README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# cSEM: a package for composite-based SEM <img src='man/figures/cSEMsticker.svg' align="right" height="200" /></a>

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/cSEM)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=cSEM)
[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.com/M-E-Rademaker/cSEM.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/M-E-Rademaker/cSEM)

WARNING: THIS IS WORK IN PROGRESS. BREAKING CHANGES TO THE API ARE VERY
LIKELY. Use the package with caution and please report bugs to [the
package creator](mailto:manuel.rademaker@uni-wuerzburg.de). The first
stable relase will be version 0.0.1, most likely in mid 2019.

## Purpose

Estimate, analyse, test, and study linear, nonlinear, hierachical and
multigroup structural equation models using composite-based approaches
and procedures, including estimation techniques such as partial least
squares path modeling (PLS-PM) and its derivatives (PLSc, ordPLSc,
robustPLSc), generalized structured component analysis (GSCA),
generalized structured component analysis with uniqueness terms (GSCAm),
generalized canonical correlation analysis (GCCA), principal component
analysis (PCA), factor score regression (FSR) using sum score,
regression or bartlett scores (including bias correction using Croon’s
approach), as well as several tests and typical postestimation
procedures (e.g., verify admissibility of the estimates, assess the
model fit, test the model fit etc.).

## Installation

``` r
# Currently only a development version from GitHub is available:
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("M-E-Rademaker/cSEM")
```

## Philosophy

  - User-centered design\!
  - Easy to use by non-R experts:
      - One central function `csem()` provides default choices for most
        of its arguments (similarity to the `sem()` and `cfa()`
        functions of the [lavaan](http://lavaan.ugent.be/) package is
        intended).
      - (Eventually…) well documented (vignettes, HTML output, a
        website, intro course(s), cheatsheets)
      - Structured output/results that aims to be “easy”" in a sense
        that it is
          - … descriptive/verbose
          - … easy to export to other environments such as MS Word,
            Latex files etc. (exportability)
          - … easy to migrate from/to/between other PLS/VB/CB-based
            systems (lavaan, semPLS, ADANCO, SmartPLS)
  - The package is designed to be flexible/modular enough so that
    researchers developing new methods can take specific function
    provided by the package and alter them according to their need
    without working their way through a chain of other functions
    (naturally this will not always be possible). Modularity is largly
    inspired by the `matrixpls` package.
  - Modern in a sense that the package integrates modern developments
    within the R community. This mainly includes
    ideas/recommendations/design choices that fead into the packages of
    the [tidyverse](https://github.com/tidyverse/tidyverse).

## Basic usage

The basic usage is illustrated below.
<img src="man/figures/api.png" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Roughly speaking using `cSEM` is always the same 3 step procedure

1.  Pick a dataset and specify a model using [lavaan
    syntax](http://lavaan.ugent.be/tutorial/syntax1.html)
2.  Use `csem()`
3.  Apply one of the postestimation functions on the resulting object.

### Example

Models are defined using [lavaan
syntax](http://lavaan.ugent.be/tutorial/syntax1.html) with some slight
modifications. For illustration we use the build-in and well known
`satisfaction` dataset.

``` r
require(cSEM)
data(satisfaction)
    
## Note: the opeartor "<~" tells cSEM that the construct to its left is modelled
##       as a composite.
##       the operator "=~" tells cSEM that the construct to its left is modelled
##       as a common factor.
    
model <- "
# Structural model
EXPE ~ IMAG
QUAL ~ EXPE
VAL  ~ EXPE + QUAL
SAT  ~ IMAG + EXPE + QUAL + VAL 
LOY  ~ IMAG + SAT

# Measurement model

IMAG <~ imag1 + imag2 + imag3
EXPE <~ expe1 + expe2 + expe3 
QUAL <~ qual1 + qual2 + qual3 + qual4 + qual5
VAL  <~ val1  + val2  + val3
SAT  =~ sat1  + sat2  + sat3  + sat4
LOY  =~ loy1  + loy2  + loy3  + loy4
"
```

Estimation is done using the `csem()` function.

``` r
# Estimate using defaults
a <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model)

# This is equal to
csem(
   .data                        = satisfaction,
   .model                       = model,
   .approach_cor_robust         = "none",
   .approach_nl                 = "sequential",
   .approach_paths              = "OLS",
   .approach_weights            = "PLS-PM",
   .conv_criterion              = "diff_absolute",
   .disattenuate                = TRUE,
   .dominant_indicators         = NULL,
   .estimate_structural         = TRUE,
   .id                          = NULL,
   .iter_max                    = 100,
   .normality                   = TRUE,
   .PLS_approach_cf             = "dist_squared_euclid",
   .PLS_ignore_structural_model = FALSE,
   .PLS_modes                   = NULL,
   .PLS_weight_scheme_inner     = "path",
   .reliabilities               = NULL,
   .tolerance                   = 1e-05,
   .resample_method             = "none", 
   .resample_method2            = "none",
   .R                           = 499,
   .R2                          = 199,
   .handle_inadmissibles        = "drop",
   .user_funs                   = NULL,
   .eval_plan                   = "sequential",
   .seed                        = NULL
    )
```

The result is always an object of class `cSEMResults`. Technically, the
resulting object has an additional class attribute (namely
`cSEMResults_default`, `cSEMResults_multi` or `cSEMResults_2ndorder`),
however, users usually dont need to worry since postestimation functions
(will eventually) automatically work on all classes.

``` r
## Access elements using `$`. E.g.:
a$Estimates$Loading_estimates 
a$Information$Model
    
## Examine the structure:
listviewer::jsonedit(a, mode = "view") # requires the listviewer package.
    
## Get a summary
summarize(a) 
    
# Alter the model to obtain a linear model:
model <- "
    # Structural model
    EXPE ~ IMAG
    QUAL ~ EXPE
    VAL  ~ EXPE + QUAL
    SAT  ~ IMAG + EXPE + QUAL + VAL
    LOY  ~ IMAG + SAT
    
    # Measurement model
    
    IMAG <~ imag1 + imag2 + imag3
    EXPE <~ expe1 + expe2 + expe3 
    QUAL <~ qual1 + qual2 + qual3 + qual4 + qual5
    VAL  <~ val1  + val2  + val3
    SAT  =~ sat1  + sat2  + sat3  + sat4
    LOY  =~ loy1  + loy2  + loy3  + loy4
    "
    
a <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model)
    
## Apply postestimation functions, e.g.
verify(a) 
    
## Test overall model fit
testOMF(a) # takes roughly 30 seconds
```

#### Inference

By default no inferential quantities are calculated since most
composite-based approaches do not have closed-form solutions for
standard errors. `cSEM` relies on the `bootstrap` or `jackknife` to
estimate standard errors, test statistics, and critical quantiles.

`cSEM` offers two ways to compute resamples:

1.  Inference can be done by first setting `.resample_method` to
    `"jackkinfe"` or `"bootstrap"` and subsequently using `summarize()`
    or `infer()`.
2.  The same result is achieved by passing a `cSEMResults` object to
    `resamplecSEMResults()` and subsequently using `summarize()` or
    `infer()`.

<!-- end list -->

``` r
# Setting `.resample_method`
b1 <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model, .resample_method = "bootstrap")
b2 <- resamplecSEMResults(a)
```

Several confidence intervals are implemented, see `?infer()`:

``` r
summarize(b1)
infer(b1, .quantity = c("CI_standard_z", "CI_percentile")) # no print method yet
```

Both bootstrap and jackknife resampling support platform-independent
multiprocessing as well as random seeds via the [future
framework](https://github.com/HenrikBengtsson/future). For
multiprocessing simply set `eval_plan = "multiprocess"` in which case
the maximum number of available cores is used if not on Windows. On
Windows as many separate R instances are opened in the backround as
there are cores available instead. Note that this naturally has some
overhead so for a small number of resamples multiprocessing will not
always be faster compared to sequential (single core) processing (the
default). Seeds are set via the `.seed` argument.

``` r
b <- csem(
  .data            = satisfaction,
  .model           = model, 
  .resample_method = "bootstrap",
  .R               = 999,
  .seed            = 98234,
  .eval_plan       = "multiprocess")
```

## Postestimation functions

Currently we have four major postestimation verbs.

  - `summarize()` : usually all that is need.
  - `verify()` : verify if the estimation produced admissible results
  - `assess()` : asses the model using common fit and assessment
    measures
  - `predict()` : (not yet implemented)

Tests are performed by using the test family of functions. Currently
three tests are implemented.

  - `testOMF()` : performs a test for overall model fit
  - `testMICOM()` : performs a test for composite measurement invariance
  - `testMGD` : performs a test for multi-group differences

All functions require a `cSEMResults` object.

Commit message:

add Getting started to README

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# cSEM: a package for composite-based SEM <img src='man/figures/cSEMsticker.svg' align="right" height="200" /></a>

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/cSEM)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=cSEM)
[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.com/M-E-Rademaker/cSEM.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/M-E-Rademaker/cSEM)

WARNING: THIS IS WORK IN PROGRESS. BREAKING CHANGES TO THE API ARE VERY
LIKELY. Use the package with caution and please report bugs to [the
package creator](mailto:manuel.rademaker@uni-wuerzburg.de). The first
stable relase will be version 0.0.1, most likely in mid 2019.

## Purpose

Estimate, analyse, test, and study linear, nonlinear, hierachical and
multigroup structural equation models using composite-based approaches
and procedures, including estimation techniques such as partial least
squares path modeling (PLS-PM) and its derivatives (PLSc, ordPLSc,
robustPLSc), generalized structured component analysis (GSCA),
generalized structured component analysis with uniqueness terms (GSCAm),
generalized canonical correlation analysis (GCCA), principal component
analysis (PCA), factor score regression (FSR) using sum score,
regression or bartlett scores (including bias correction using Croon’s
approach), as well as several tests and typical postestimation
procedures (e.g., verify admissibility of the estimates, assess the
model fit, test the model fit etc.).

## Installation

``` r
# Currently only a development version from GitHub is available:
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("M-E-Rademaker/cSEM")
```

## Getting started

The best place to get started is the
[cSEM-website](https://m-e-rademaker.github.io/cSEM/) (Work in
progress).

## Philosophy

  - User-centered design\!
  - Easy to use by non-R experts:
      - One central function `csem()` provides default choices for most
        of its arguments (similarity to the `sem()` and `cfa()`
        functions of the [lavaan](http://lavaan.ugent.be/) package is
        intended).
      - (Eventually…) well documented (vignettes, HTML output, a
        website, intro course(s), cheatsheets)
      - Structured output/results that aims to be “easy”" in a sense
        that it is
          - … descriptive/verbose
          - … easy to export to other environments such as MS Word,
            Latex files etc. (exportability)
          - … easy to migrate from/to/between other PLS/VB/CB-based
            systems (lavaan, semPLS, ADANCO, SmartPLS)
  - The package is designed to be flexible/modular enough so that
    researchers developing new methods can take specific function
    provided by the package and alter them according to their need
    without working their way through a chain of other functions
    (naturally this will not always be possible). Modularity is largly
    inspired by the `matrixpls` package.
  - Modern in a sense that the package integrates modern developments
    within the R community. This mainly includes
    ideas/recommendations/design choices that fead into the packages of
    the [tidyverse](https://github.com/tidyverse/tidyverse).

## Basic usage

The basic usage is illustrated below.
<img src="man/figures/api.png" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Roughly speaking using `cSEM` is always the same 3 step procedure

1.  Pick a dataset and specify a model using [lavaan
    syntax](http://lavaan.ugent.be/tutorial/syntax1.html)
2.  Use `csem()`
3.  Apply one of the postestimation functions on the resulting object.

### Example

Models are defined using [lavaan
syntax](http://lavaan.ugent.be/tutorial/syntax1.html) with some slight
modifications. For illustration we use the build-in and well known
`satisfaction` dataset.

``` r
require(cSEM)
data(satisfaction)
    
## Note: the opeartor "<~" tells cSEM that the construct to its left is modelled
##       as a composite.
##       the operator "=~" tells cSEM that the construct to its left is modelled
##       as a common factor.
    
model <- "
# Structural model
EXPE ~ IMAG
QUAL ~ EXPE
VAL  ~ EXPE + QUAL
SAT  ~ IMAG + EXPE + QUAL + VAL 
LOY  ~ IMAG + SAT

# Measurement model

IMAG <~ imag1 + imag2 + imag3
EXPE <~ expe1 + expe2 + expe3 
QUAL <~ qual1 + qual2 + qual3 + qual4 + qual5
VAL  <~ val1  + val2  + val3
SAT  =~ sat1  + sat2  + sat3  + sat4
LOY  =~ loy1  + loy2  + loy3  + loy4
"
```

Estimation is done using the `csem()` function.

``` r
# Estimate using defaults
a <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model)

# This is equal to
csem(
   .data                        = satisfaction,
   .model                       = model,
   .approach_cor_robust         = "none",
   .approach_nl                 = "sequential",
   .approach_paths              = "OLS",
   .approach_weights            = "PLS-PM",
   .conv_criterion              = "diff_absolute",
   .disattenuate                = TRUE,
   .dominant_indicators         = NULL,
   .estimate_structural         = TRUE,
   .id                          = NULL,
   .iter_max                    = 100,
   .normality                   = TRUE,
   .PLS_approach_cf             = "dist_squared_euclid",
   .PLS_ignore_structural_model = FALSE,
   .PLS_modes                   = NULL,
   .PLS_weight_scheme_inner     = "path",
   .reliabilities               = NULL,
   .tolerance                   = 1e-05,
   .resample_method             = "none", 
   .resample_method2            = "none",
   .R                           = 499,
   .R2                          = 199,
   .handle_inadmissibles        = "drop",
   .user_funs                   = NULL,
   .eval_plan                   = "sequential",
   .seed                        = NULL
    )
```

The result is always an object of class `cSEMResults`. Technically, the
resulting object has an additional class attribute (namely
`cSEMResults_default`, `cSEMResults_multi` or `cSEMResults_2ndorder`),
however, users usually dont need to worry since postestimation functions
(will eventually) automatically work on all classes.

``` r
## Access elements using `$`. E.g.:
a$Estimates$Loading_estimates 
a$Information$Model
    
## Examine the structure:
listviewer::jsonedit(a, mode = "view") # requires the listviewer package.
    
## Get a summary
summarize(a) 
    
# Alter the model to obtain a linear model:
model <- "
    # Structural model
    EXPE ~ IMAG
    QUAL ~ EXPE
    VAL  ~ EXPE + QUAL
    SAT  ~ IMAG + EXPE + QUAL + VAL
    LOY  ~ IMAG + SAT
    
    # Measurement model
    
    IMAG <~ imag1 + imag2 + imag3
    EXPE <~ expe1 + expe2 + expe3 
    QUAL <~ qual1 + qual2 + qual3 + qual4 + qual5
    VAL  <~ val1  + val2  + val3
    SAT  =~ sat1  + sat2  + sat3  + sat4
    LOY  =~ loy1  + loy2  + loy3  + loy4
    "
    
a <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model)
    
## Apply postestimation functions, e.g.
verify(a) 
    
## Test overall model fit
testOMF(a) # takes roughly 30 seconds
```

#### Inference

By default no inferential quantities are calculated since most
composite-based approaches do not have closed-form solutions for
standard errors. `cSEM` relies on the `bootstrap` or `jackknife` to
estimate standard errors, test statistics, and critical quantiles.

`cSEM` offers two ways to compute resamples:

1.  Inference can be done by first setting `.resample_method` to
    `"jackkinfe"` or `"bootstrap"` and subsequently using `summarize()`
    or `infer()`.
2.  The same result is achieved by passing a `cSEMResults` object to
    `resamplecSEMResults()` and subsequently using `summarize()` or
    `infer()`.

<!-- end list -->

``` r
# Setting `.resample_method`
b1 <- csem(.data = satisfaction, .model = model, .resample_method = "bootstrap")
b2 <- resamplecSEMResults(a)
```

Several confidence intervals are implemented, see `?infer()`:

``` r
summarize(b1)
infer(b1, .quantity = c("CI_standard_z", "CI_percentile")) # no print method yet
```

Both bootstrap and jackknife resampling support platform-independent
multiprocessing as well as random seeds via the [future
framework](https://github.com/HenrikBengtsson/future). For
multiprocessing simply set `eval_plan = "multiprocess"` in which case
the maximum number of available cores is used if not on Windows. On
Windows as many separate R instances are opened in the backround as
there are cores available instead. Note that this naturally has some
overhead so for a small number of resamples multiprocessing will not
always be faster compared to sequential (single core) processing (the
default). Seeds are set via the `.seed` argument.

``` r
b <- csem(
  .data            = satisfaction,
  .model           = model, 
  .resample_method = "bootstrap",
  .R               = 999,
  .seed            = 98234,
  .eval_plan       = "multiprocess")
```

## Postestimation functions

Currently we have four major postestimation verbs.

  - `summarize()` : usually all that is need.
  - `verify()` : verify if the estimation produced admissible results
  - `assess()` : asses the model using common fit and assessment
    measures
  - `predict()` : (not yet implemented)

Tests are performed by using the test family of functions. Currently
three tests are implemented.

  - `testOMF()` : performs a test for overall model fit
  - `testMICOM()` : performs a test for composite measurement invariance
  - `testMGD` : performs a test for multi-group differences

All functions require a `cSEMResults` object.
